Dad left us when I was around five years old.
Then when I was 15, we found out Mum had cancer and she passed away six months later.
She was only 39.
My two younger brothers were still in elementary school.
So I woke up early, did the milk rounds,
worked in a factory during the day and went to school at night.
My life was super busy then.
My life became significantly easier after marriage.
Since my wife did the housework, all I needed to do was work.
Before I was so busy that I never really got to have any fun.
One day, a friend took me to a betting shop for horse racing.
And to my surprise, I got lucky.
I was surprised that you can buy a ticket and then you get all this money in your hands.
So that's how it started.
It gradually became worse.
To the point that I would get off the night shift and go straight to the races.
I loved gambling more than eating and sleeping.
On my way home, images of my wife and children would come to my mind.
And I had this nagging feeling that I really should be getting my life together.
When I was broke, I would go to the pawn shops.
I pawned our camera and even my wife's jewelry.
My wife started studying the Bible.
And to try and make my wife and children a little happy,
I also agreed to a study.
Before I started gambling, I liked growing vegetables.
You know, everything a vegetable needs.
All the instructions to grow is in this tiny seed that is one or two millimeters in size.
I knew that couldn't just happen by chance.
I was convinced that there must be a God.
Through my Bible study, I learned that this God is Jehovah.
And that made me really happy.
I found you. That's how I felt.
However, it was really difficult to quit gambling.
You know, many times I wanted to quit.
And I would pay back my loans, but then take out some more again.
My wife's relative said to me, only death can cure you.
So I had this conviction that the Creator exists.
And yet on the other hand, I was deep into gambling.
I knew Jehovah saw it all and I hated myself.
I attended a circuit assembly for the first time,
put away the old personality and put on the new personality.
As I was reading those words from the Bible,
I felt that was about me.
When I asked myself, hey, what's happening to my life right now?
I saw how horrible and ugly my mindset was.
I felt tears well up.
I knew this was Jehovah talking to me.
And I felt determined to do something about it.
I couldn't do it on my own.
So I prayed to Jehovah from the bottom of my heart,
saying, I really want to stop, no matter what.
I want to hate gambling and not just avoid it.
Please give me this feeling of hate.
I prayed like this every day.
Since then, I have felt zero desire to gamble.
There was one time during work when I passed by a racetrack.
I loved bicycle racing before, but now I felt this deep revulsion.
I knew my prayers were answered.
I felt Jehovah's patience and so much appreciation
for how he allowed me in knowing who I was.
If I had continued that path, I'm sure my family would have broken apart.
My relatives are all surprised at me.
I'm sure those trying to stop gambling have many concerns,
but as long as you have that desire to pour out those feelings to Jehovah,
and jump into his arms, he'll take you in.
He won't leave you.
I really want them to know Jehovah as that kind of person.